# Glossary

### Algorithm

An algorithm is a set of instructions that a program must follow in order to solve a problem. There are a variety of ways to show an algorithm in Programming such as Flowcharts and Pseudo code. These are the most common ways of showing it since they allow the user to see the instructions that a program will follow when it is running, which enables the reader to understand what is going on even if they have no prior knowledge of programming.
### Process of Building an application
This section will be explaining all of the steps that need to be taken when building an application in order to meet the needs of the client.
##### Obtaining Requirements
The first step that has to be taken is to meet with the client in order to establish a set of requirements that need to be met so that the application does what they want and need it to do. Additionally, this step can be used to determine the budget and time-frame of how long the project may take to complete, from this the company can then set out to allocate tasks to employees in order to meet deadlines.
##### Design and Development
In this phase the employees decide on which architecture will be best suited for this project in order to ensure maximum efficiency. Usually more than one design approach is proposed in order to send this off to the main stakeholders, who then review the various parameters, such as risk assessment, product robustness, budget and time constraints which then leads to them making a decision on what the best design architecture is for the program.
<br/> After this is done, the actual designing of the project takes place and the building of the program is started. The code is developed as part of the Design Document Specification, as a result if the development is implemented in a detailed and organised manner, coding can be virtually hassle-free. The developers of the code have to follow coding standards that have been provided by their organisation, programming tools like compilers, interpreters and debuggers are crucial in developing the code.
##### Testing
Now that the program has been created, the product must be tested to ensure there aren't any problems. Problems that are reported are defect within the product, these are reported, tracked, fixed and then it is tested again to ensure that no more problems arise, this process is repeated until the product reaches the standards that were defined in the SRS.
##### Deployment and Maintenance
Once the product is tested and ready to be deployed the company releases the product to the relevant market. Some of the programs that are released are done so in stages depending on the strategy of the organisation. After it has been released to the relevant market, depending on the feedback that has been received the product could receive some last minute tweaks or it could stay as it is and be released to the general public and product maintenance is carried out for the users of the program whenever they encounter a problem.
### Paradigms
##### Procedural
It is a programming paradigm that utilises a linear approach (also known as top-down) in order to execute code. These procedures are essentially a sequence of commands that have to be executed. By using this paradigm any procedure that has been created in the code can be called at any point to run inside the program. This paradigm is commonly used in large-scale projects due to the fact that reusability of code is one of its major benefits e.g. libraries. Another reason is because of the ease of understanding it provides when looking at the source code since the code runs line by line which means the reader just needs to follow each line to understand what is going on.
##### Object Oriented
Object oriented programming represents programs as a set of objects and interactions. The fundemental principles of OOP are that an object is an elementary entity described with certain properties known as attributes, as well as having certain behaviours called methods. Classes are able to inherit attributes and methods of their parent class whilst also including their own ones. Encapsulation is another fundamental aspect of OOP as this makes the programs structure easier to manage since each object is hidden behind well defined boundaries. Polymorphism is also key in OOP as it allows abstract entities to be implemented in many different ways. To conclude OOP allows for simplified programming due to the ease it gives to users to code.
##### Event Driven
This is a paradigm that responds to user input and other events. The way it works is by reacting to specific actions enacted by the user such as mouse clicks or key entries. This paradigm is commonly found in Graphical User Interfaces as well as games since it is able to respond to the user input that it receives. The most common way of programming in EDP is to write a main loop that will listen for the events and redirect the code when one of the events are enacted.
##### Comparison
there are relationships between these 3 paradigms 